# StoriesTheGodsTell

It was a bright, crisp morning and sunlight danced on rivulets of meltwater. My feet twitched to join them, but the sun and snow were out of reach. I pressed closer to the window.

In the street below a man waved a bolt of fabric at passersby. A smile split his face, revealing a large gap where two teeth used to be. The honey yellow that slipped from his lips hung in the air in sharp contrast to the red of the cloth.

I'd had a red shift once. It had been a coarse thing, scrubbing against my skin as I moved. I wished I had it now. Red was a clean color. It had also been warm, with enough fabric to curl up inside when the air grew icy. I held my cheek against the glass. The sun teased, stripping frost from the pane but leaving a chill that was settled deep in my bones. Cold was a strange sensation, both sharp and numb with an ache that made moving an effort and a burn that bit at my exposed skin. Frostbite. Men lost fingers to it, back in the red house. There they knew ways of saving them, the fingers, but I'd never learned. I inspected my own fingers, dark and thin, one gnawed until a scab had formed beside the nail, knuckles made large by the loss of flesh between. All were still there.

In the street people were bundled up against the cold, though scarves that had shrouded faces the day before now hung free, exposing ruddy cheeks. Their smallest actions held a fascination, activities I half remembered, bartering with voices raised blue and gold, a glint of money changing hands, eyes closing with the first bite of a warm loaf of bread. I liked soured bread best, with salutary stew. I’d stolen whole loaves of it when cook wasn’t looking, wrapping them up to take with me whenever I slipped off the grounds. Of all the taverns, the Rearing Buck was my favorite, teeming with so many people I often had to perch on a windowsill or tuck myself under a bench to listen as seers competed for the crowd’s favor.

I studied the street like this until his face intruded in the crowd. It always did when my mind began to clear. The features so like my own, distinguished only by a nose broken in two places and his tight coils of red-black hair shorn short. He always seemed to stare at me, never speaking. On my worst days his mouth was a mangled, empty gash. For some time now it had simply been missing, the fragment of a memory that won't quite rise to the surface.

But today was different, he strode purposefully along the street, his face too pale, hair straight with a shock of grey, all his features whole again. He glanced up, gauging the sky for the hour of the day and for less than a second he seemed to look straight at me. Another memory clawed its way to the surface, Father.

I bent double and retched, an acrid mixture of broth and cargan gum burning its way out of my nostrils as well as my mouth. Shakes took me and the cold ceased to be a curiosity. Ice rushed harsh into my lungs, making me cough until I retched again. For the first time in nearly a year, I was awake.
